{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Arial;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1036\f0\fs20NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
IBM ILOG CPLEX Optimization Studio V12.3\par
IBM ILOG CPLEX V12.3\par
IBM ILOG CP Optimizer V12.3\par
IBM ILOG OPL-CPLEX V12.3\par
IBM ILOG OPL-CPLEX Analyst Studio V12.3\par
\par
The IBM license agreement and any applicable information on the web\par
download page for IBM products refers Licensee to this file for details\par
concerning notices applicable to code included in the products listed\par
above ("the Program").\par
\par
Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of any other agreement Licensee\par
may have with IBM or any of its related or affiliated entities\par
(collectively "IBM"), the third party code identified below is subject\par
to the terms and conditions of the IBM license agreement for the Program\par
and not the license terms that may be contained in the notices below.\par
The notices are provided for informational purposes.\par
\par
Please note: This Notices file may identify information that is not used\par
by, or that was not shipped with, the Program as Licensee installed it.\par
\par
IMPORTANT: IBM does not represent or warrant that the information in this\par
NOTICES file is accurate. Third party websites are independent of IBM and\par
IBM does not represent or warrant that the information on any third party\par
website referenced in this NOTICES file is accurate. IBM disclaims any\par
and all liability for errors and omissions or for any damages accruing\par
from the use of this NOTICES file or its contents, including without\par
limitation URLs or references to any third party websites.\par
\par
======================================================================\par
\par
EXPAT\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of EXPAT version 2.0.  IBM obtained the Expat software under the following license:\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999, 2000 Thai Open Source Software Center Ltd\par
                               and Clark Cooper\par
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 Expat maintainers.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining\par
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the\par
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including\par
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,\par
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY\par
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,\par
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF EXPAT 2.0 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
APACHE LICENSE 2.0\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Apache License Version 2.0:\par
\par
Apache Lucene 1.4.3, Ant 1.7.0, Axis2 1.3, Fedora Common 3.0\par
\par
\par
Apache License\par
Version 2.0, January 2004\par
http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
\par
1. Definitions.\par
\par
"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
\par
"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
\par
\ldblquote Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
\par
"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted by this License.\par
\par
"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including but not limited to software source code, documentation  source, and configuration files.\par
\par
"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical  transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.\par
\par
"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).\par
\par
"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications  represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
\par
"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner\par
or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."\par
\par
 "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently incorporated within the Work.\par
\par
2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,\par
publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.\par
\par
3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)\par
with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct\par
or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
\par
4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:\par
\par
(a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License; and\par
\par
(b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the files; and\par
\par
(c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,\par
excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and\par
\par
(d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must  include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not\par
pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or\par
documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, ithin a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution  notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided\par
that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the License.\par
\par
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and  may provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,\par
reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License.\par
\par
5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions.\par
Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.\par
\par
 6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
\par
7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A     PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the    appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.\par
\par
8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be\par
liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such damages.\par
\par
9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf  of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability\par
incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.\par
\par
END OF APACHE LICENSE 2.0 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
ALADDIN MD5\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of Aladdin MD5 version 1.6.  IBM obtained the software under the following license:\par
\par
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2002 Aladdin Enterprises.  All rights reserved.\par
\par
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software.\par
\par
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions:\par
\par
1.\tab The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not required.\par
2.\tab Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software.\par
3.\tab This notice may not be removed or altered from any source   distribution.\par
\par
L. Peter Deutsch\par
ghost@aladdin.com\par
             \par
END OF ALADDIN MD5 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
GDTOA\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of GDTOA.  IBM obtained the GDTOA software under the following license:\par
\par
The author of this software is David M. Gay.\par
\par
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 by Lucent Technologies\par
All Rights Reserved\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and\par
its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that the copyright notice and this permission notice and warranty disclaimer appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of Lucent or any of its entities not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission.\par
\par
LUCENT DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,\par
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS.\par
IN NO EVENT SHALL LUCENT OR ANY OF ITS ENTITIES BE LIABLE FOR ANY\par
SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF GDTOA NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
BOOST SOFTWARE LICENSE\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Boost Software License: NEDMALLOC.\par
\par
Boost Software License - Version 1.0\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization\par
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by\par
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,\par
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the\par
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to\par
do so, all subject to the following:\par
\par
The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including\par
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,\par
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and\par
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative\par
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by\par
a source language processor.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT\par
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,\par
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER\par
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF BOOST SOFTWARE LICENSE\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
AMPL SOLVER LIBRARY\par
\par
The Program includes the AMPL Solver Library.  IBM obtained the AMPL Solver Library software under the following licenses:\par
\par
Copyright (C) 2007 David M. Gay\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its\par
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,\par
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that\par
both that the copyright notice and this permission notice and warranty\par
disclaimer appear in supporting documentation.\par
\par
The author disclaims all warranties with regard to this software,\par
including all implied warranties of merchantability and fitness.\par
In no event shall the author be liable for any special, indirect or\par
consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of\par
use, data or profits, whether in an action of contract, negligence or\par
other tortious action, arising out of or in connection with the use or\par
performance of this software.\par
\par
\par
Copyright (C) various dates Lucent Technologies\par
All Rights Reserved\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and\par
its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby\par
granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all\par
copies and that both that the copyright notice and this\par
permission notice and warranty disclaimer appear in supporting\par
documentation, and that the name of Lucent or any of its entities\par
not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to\par
distribution of the software without specific, written prior\par
permission.\par
\par
LUCENT DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,\par
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS.\par
IN NO EVENT SHALL LUCENT OR ANY OF ITS ENTITIES BE LIABLE FOR ANY\par
SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES\par
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER\par
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION,\par
ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF\par
THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Copyright (C) 2002 AMPL Optimization LLC\par
All Rights Reserved\par
Based largely on suf_sos.c, which bears the following Copyright\par
notice and disclaimer.  AMPL Optimization LLC similarly disclaims\par
all warranties with regard to this software and grants permission\par
to use, copy, modify, and distribute it and its documentation. */\par
\par
END OF AMPL SOLVER LIBRARY NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
AMPL CPLEX DRIVER\par
\par
The Program includes the AMPL CPLEX driver, version 20090330.  IBM obtained the AMPL CPLEX driver software under the following license:\par
\par
Copyright (C) 1997-2001 Lucent Technologies\par
All Rights Reserved\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and\par
its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby\par
granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all\par
copies and that both that the copyright notice and this\par
permission notice and warranty disclaimer appear in supporting\par
documentation, and that the name of Lucent or any of its entities\par
not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to\par
distribution of the software without specific, written prior\par
permission.\par
\par
LUCENT DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,\par
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS.\par
IN NO EVENT SHALL LUCENT OR ANY OF ITS ENTITIES BE LIABLE FOR ANY\par
SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES\par
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER\par
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION,\par
ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF\par
THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF AMPL CPLEX DRIVER NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
JACE 1.1 RC 1_05\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of Jace 1.1 that IBM obtained under the BSD License.\par
\par
The source code for this package is available from http://sourceforge.net/projects/jace/.\par
\par
END OF JACE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
DOM4J\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of DOM4J that IBM obtained under the following License:\par
\par
Copyright 2001-2005 (C) MetaStuff, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use of this software and associated documentation\par
("Software"), with or without modification, are permitted provided\par
that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
1. Redistributions of source code must retain copyright\par
   statements and notices.  Redistributions must also contain a\par
   copy of this document.\par
 \par
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the\par
   above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the\par
   following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other\par
   materials provided with the distribution.\par
 \par
3. The name "DOM4J" must not be used to endorse or promote\par
   products derived from this Software without prior written\par
   permission of MetaStuff, Ltd.  For written permission,\par
   please contact dom4j-info@metastuff.com.\par
 \par
4. Products derived from this Software may not be called "DOM4J"\par
   nor may "DOM4J" appear in their names without prior written\par
   permission of MetaStuff, Ltd. DOM4J is a registered\par
   trademark of MetaStuff, Ltd.\par
 \par
5. Due credit should be given to the DOM4J Project - \par
   http://www.dom4j.org\par
 \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY METASTUFF, LTD. AND CONTRIBUTORS\par
``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT\par
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL\par
METASTUFF, LTD. OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,\par
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES\par
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR\par
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,\par
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED\par
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
\par
END OF DOM4J CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
JAXEN\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of Jaxen that IBM obtained under the following License:\par
\par
 Copyright (C) 2000-2002 bob mcwhirter & James Strachan.\par
 All rights reserved.\par
 \par
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 are met:\par
 \par
 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
    notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.\par
 \par
 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
    notice, this list of conditions, and the disclaimer that follows \par
    these conditions in the documentation and/or other materials \par
    provided with the distribution.\par
\par
 3. The name "Jaxen" must not be used to endorse or promote products\par
    derived from this software without prior written permission.  For\par
    written permission, please contact license@jaxen.org.\par
 \par
 4. Products derived from this software may not be called "Jaxen", nor\par
    may "Jaxen" appear in their name, without prior written permission\par
    from the Jaxen Project Management (pm@jaxen.org).\par
 \par
 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED\par
 WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
 DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE Jaxen AUTHORS OR THE PROJECT\par
 CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
 SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
 LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF\par
 USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
 ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
 OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT\par
 OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
 SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF JAXEN CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================================\par
\par
IBM JAVA RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT 1.6 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
The Programs include the IBM Java Runtime Environment 1.6. Notices and information on this program can be found in\par
 <CPLEX StudioInstallation Root>\\oplide\\jre\\notices.htm\par
 \par
END OF IBM JAVA RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT 1.6 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
=======================================================================\par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION FOR ECLIPSE CODE \par
=======================================================================\par
The Program contains open source software obtained from the Eclipse Foundation (herein collectively referred to as "Eclipse Code"). Notices and important information, including instructions for obtaining source code, for the Eclipse Code may be found in associated "about.html" files ("About Files") that accompany the Eclipse Code. These About Files are provided for informational purposes only, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary therein, your use of such Eclipse Code shall be governed by the terms of the IBM end user license agreement. \par
\par
Eclipse Communication Framework 4.0 (subset)\par
Eclipse Equinox (OSGi Services) 3.6 (subset)\par
Ant 1.7.1\par
Ant 1.6\par
Cairo Binding \par
Cairo Library 1.0.2\par
Commons codec 1.3.0(subset)\par
Commons Collections (ReferenceMap.java is a derivative of one class) 2.1 \par
Commons EL 1.0 \par
Commons HttpClient 3.1.0\par
Commons Logging 1.0.4\par
Felix 1.2.0 (SCR API) \par
GNOME Binding \par
GTK+ Binding \par
GTK+ Binding for Mozilla \par
Independent JPEG Group's LIBJPEG Release 6b (derivative - subset)\par
Jetty 6.1.23\par
JSch 0.1.41\par
Lucene 1.9.1 (subset)\par
Mozilla Binding \par
OSGi Materials 4.2.0 (subset)\par
pixman 0.1.6\par
Putty 0.58 (derivative of one class)\par
SAT4J 2.2.0 (subset)\par
Tomcat 5.5.17 (Jasper Compiler) \par
Tomcat 5.5.17 (Java Servlet JSP API 2.0) \par
Tomcat 6.0.14 (Java Servlet APIs 2.5.0) \par
XULRunner 1.9 (subset - 2 header files)\par
\par
\par
Modifiable Third Party Code\par
\par
This Program includes some or all of the following Modifiable Third Party Code that IBM obtained under the GNU Lesser General Public License. For copies of the source code for this software, send an email to ies@ca.ibm.com identifying the IBM Program and the Modifiable Third Party Code for which you are requesting the source code.\par
\par
\'b7\tab GNOME Binding\par
\'b7\tab GTK+ Binding\par
\'b7\tab GTK+ Binding for Mozilla\par
\par
GNU Lesser General Public License\par
Version 2.1, February 1999\par
Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\par
[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number 2.1.]\par
Preamble\par
The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.\par
This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.\par
When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do these things.\par
To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.\par
For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.\par
We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.\par
To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be introduced by others.\par
Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder. Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.\par
Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.\par
When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with the library.\par
We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain special circumstances.\par
For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library. A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.\par
In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating system.\par
Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified version of the Library.\par
The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order to run.\par
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION\par
0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".\par
A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.\par
The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)\par
"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the library.\par
Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.\par
1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the Library.\par
You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.\par
2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:\par
a) The modified work must itself be a software library.\par
b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.\par
c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.\par
d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful.\par
(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this function must be optional: if the a pplication does not supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.)\par
These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.\par
Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the Library.\par
In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this License.\par
3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make any other change in these notices.\par
Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.\par
This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into a program that is not a library.\par
4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.\par
If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.\par
5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.\par
However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.\par
When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.\par
If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)\par
Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.\par
6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.\par
You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License. Also, you must do one of these things:\par
a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application to use the modified definitions.)\par
b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.\par
c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.\par
d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials from the same place.\par
e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.\par
For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the executable.\par
It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system. Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in an executable that you distribute.\par
7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things:\par
a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be distributed under the terms of the Sections above.\par
b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.\par
8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.\par
9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the Library or works based on it.\par
10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.\par
11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all. For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.\par
If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.\par
It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that choice.\par
This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a consequence of the rest of this License.\par
12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this License.\par
13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.\par
Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.\par
14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.\par
NO WARRANTY\par
15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.\par
16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\par
END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries\par
If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public License).\par
To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found. \par
<one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.> Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>\par
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\par
This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.\par
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA \par
Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.\par
You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:\par
Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.\par
signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990\par
Ty Coon, President of Vice\par
\par
END OF ECLIPSE CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
====================================================================\par
ICU\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of the ICU software that IBM obtained under the UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE and the ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later, which are reproduced below.\par
====================================================================\par
\par
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS\par
\par
The data in a number of the examples, as cited in these examples, is taken from the book Model Building in Mathematical Programming, 4th ed., by H. P. Williams, published by John Wiley & Sons, copyright 1999.\par
The data in the steel production planning examples is taken from the book AMPL: A Modeling Language for Mathematical Programming, 2nd ed., by R. Fourer, D. M. Gay and B. W. Kernighan, published by Brooks/Cole Publishing Co./Cengage Learning, copyright 2002.\par
\par
\par
====================================================================\par
INSTALLANYWHERE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
The Program includes InstallAnyWhere version 2010 SP1 software, which includes the following software:\par
\par
\'b7\tab Regexp V1.2; Commons Codec 1.3; ANT 1.6.2; BrowserLauncher V1.4b1;  PNGImage Producer V0.88;  HSQLDB V1.7;  ICU4J V3.6; JTOPEN V5.1\par
\par
 Apache Software License 1.1\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Apache License Version 1.1:.  \par
\par
\'b7\tab Regexp V1.2\par
\par
\par
/* \par
 * The Apache Software License, Version 1.1\par
 *\par
 * Copyright \'a9 2000 The Apache Software Foundation.  All rights\par
 * reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
 *    distribution.\par
 *\par
 * 3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution,\par
 *    if any, must include the following acknowledgment:\par
 *       \ldblquote This product includes software developed by the\par
 *        Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).\rdblquote\par
 *    Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself,\par
 *    if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.\par
 *\par
 * 4. The names \ldblquote Apache\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Apache Software Foundation\rdblquote  must\par
 *    not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this\par
 *    software without prior written permission. For written\par
 *    permission, please contact apache@apache.org.\par
 *\par
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called \ldblquote Apache\rdblquote ,\par
 *    nor may \ldblquote Apache\rdblquote  appear in their name, without prior written\par
 *    permission of the Apache Software Foundation.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS\rquote\rquote  AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED\par
 * WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
 * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
 * DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR\par
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
 * LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF\par
 * USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
 * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
 * OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT\par
 * OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
 * SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 * ====================================================================\par
 *\par
 * This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many\par
 * individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation.  For more\par
 * information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see\par
 * <http://www.apache.org/>.\par
 *\par
 * Portions of this software are based upon public domain software\par
 * originally written at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications,\par
 * University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.\par
 */\par
\par
END OF Apache Software License 1.1 NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
\par
Apache License 2.0\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Apache License Version 2.0:\par
\par
\'b7\tab Commons Codec 1.3\par
\'b7\tab ANT 1.6.2\par
\par
Refer to the copy earlier in this file.\par
\par
END OF  Apache License 2.0 NOTICES AND INFORMATION   \par
\par
BROWSERLAUNCHER CODE.  \par
\par
The Program includes the following BrowserLauncher software:\par
\par
\'b7\tab BrowserLauncher V1.4b1\par
\par
 IBM\'ae is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, with a copy of the following license from BrowserLauncher:  \par
\par
This code is Copyright 1999-2001 by Eric Albert (ejalbert@cs.stanford.edu) and may be redistributed or modified in any form without restrictions as long as the portion of this comment from this paragraph through the end of the comment is not removed.  The author requests that he be notified of any application, applet, or other binary that makes use of this code, but that's more out of curiosity than anything and is not required.  This software includes no warranty.  The author is not repsonsible for any loss of data or functionality or any adverse or unexpected effects of using this software.\par
\par
Credits:\par
Steven Spencer, JavaWorld magazine (http://www.javaworld.com/javaworld/javatips/jw-javatip66.html)\par
Thanks also to Ron B. Yeh, Eric Shapiro, Ben Engber, Paul Teitlebaum, Andrea Cantatore, Larry Barowski, Trevor Bedzek, Frank Miedrich, and Ron Rabakukk\par
\par
@author Eric Albert (ejalbert@cs.stanford.edu)\par
@version 1.4b1 (Released June 20, 2001)\par
\par
END OF BROWSERLAUNCHER NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
\par
PNGIMAGE PRODUCER CODE.  The Program includes the following PNGImage Producer software:\par
\par
\'b7\tab PNGImage Producer V0.88\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from PNGImage Producer:  \par
\par
// Copyright (c) 1997, Jason Marshall.  All Rights Reserved\par
//\par
// The author makes no representations or warranties regarding the suitability,\par
// reliability or stability of this code.  This code is provided AS IS.  The\par
// author shall not be liable for any damages suffered as a result of using,\par
// modifying or redistributing this software or any derivitives thereof.\par
// Permission to use, reproduce, modify and/or (re)distribute this software is\par
// hereby granted.\par
\par
END OF PNGIMAGE PRODUCER NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
\par
HSQL CODE.  The Program includes the following HSQL Development Group software:  \par
\par
\'b7\tab HSQLDB V1.7.1\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from the HSQL Development Group:  \par
\par
/* Copyright (c) 2001-2002, The HSQL Development Group\par
 * All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions  are met:\par
 *\par
 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
 * list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
 * this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
 * and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 *\par
 * Neither the name of the HSQL Development Group nor the names of its\par
 * contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this\par
 * software without specific prior written permission.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"\par
 * AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
 * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL HSQL DEVELOPMENT GROUP, HSQLDB.ORG, \par
 * OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, \par
 * EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, \par
 * PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;\par
 * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
 * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\par
 * (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS\par
 * SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 */\par
\par
END OF HSQL NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2010 International Business Machines Corporation and others \par
All rights reserved. \par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. \par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. \par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder. \par
\par
The source code for ICU is available on the Web from: http://www.icu-project.org/\par
\par
\par
UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE\par
\par
    Unicode Data Files include all data files under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/ . Unicode Software includes any source code published in the Unicode Standard or under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/.\par
\par
    NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY\par
DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE INC.'S DATA FILES ("DATA FILES"), AND/OR SOFTWARE ("SOFTWARE"), YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
    COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
    Copyright \'c2\'a9 1991-2009 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under the Terms of Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.\par
\par
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation (the "Data Files") or Unicode software and any associated documentation (the "Software") to deal in the Data Files or Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files or\par
Software are furnished to do so, provided that (a) the above copyright notice(s)and this permission notice appear with all copies of the Data Files or Software, (b) both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in associated documentation, and (c) there is clear notice in each modified Data File or in the Software as well as in the documentation associated with the Data File(s) or Software that the data or software has been modified.\par
\par
    THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
    Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in these Data Files or Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.\par
\par
\par
END OF ICU NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
\par
IBM Public License\par
\par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the IBM Public License (source code available via the indicated URL): \par
\par
\par
JTOPEN V5.1.1 (http://sourceforge.net/projects/jt400/)\par
END OF JTOPEN NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
\par
\par
END OF INSTALLANYWHERE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
========================================================\par
\par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
IBM ILOG Views V5.4\par
IBM ILOG DB Link V5.4\par
\par
The IBM license agreement and any applicable information on the web\par
download page for IBM products refers Licensee to this file for details\par
concerning notices applicable to code included in the products listed\par
above ("the Program").\par
\par
Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of any other agreement Licensee\par
may have with IBM or any of its related or affiliated entities\par
(collectively "IBM"), the third party code identified below are subject\par
to the terms and conditions of the IBM license agreement for the Program\par
and not the license terms that may be contained in the notices below.\par
The notices are provided for informational purposes.\par
\par
IMPORTANT: IBM does not represent or warrant that the information in this\par
NOTICES file is accurate. Third party websites are independent of IBM and\par
IBM does not represent or warrant that the information on any third party\par
web site referenced in this NOTICES file is accurate. IBM disclaims any\par
and all liability for errors and omissions or for any damages accruing\par
from the use of this NOTICES file or its contents, including without\par
limitation URLs or references to any third party websites.\par
\par
====================================================================\par
ZLIB CODE.  The Program includes the zlib 1.1.3 software.\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following\par
license from zlib\par
\par
/* zlib.h -- interface of the 'zlib' general purpose compression library\par
  version 1.1.3, July 9th, 1998\par
\par
  Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler\par
\par
  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied\par
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages\par
  arising from the use of this software.\par
\par
  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,\par
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it\par
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:\par
\par
  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not\par
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software\par
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be\par
     appreciated but is not required.\par
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be\par
     misrepresented as being the original software.\par
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.\par
\par
  Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler\par
  jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu\par
\par
\par
  The data format used by the zlib library is described by RFCs (Request for\par
  Comments) 1950 to 1952 in the files ftp://ds.internic.net/rfc/rfc1950.txt\par
  (zlib format), rfc1951.txt (deflate format) and rfc1952.txt (gzip format).\par
*/\par
\par
END OF ZLIB NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
====================================================================\par
ICU CODE.  The Program includes fragments of the ICU 2.0 software.\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following\par
license from ICU\par
\par
\par
ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2001 International Business Machines Corporation and others\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a\par
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the\par
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including\par
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,\par
distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons\par
to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above\par
copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of\par
the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this\par
permission notice appear in supporting documentation.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS\par
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT\par
OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR\par
HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL\par
INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING\par
FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,\par
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION\par
WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder\par
shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use\par
or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization\par
of the copyright holder.\par
\par
----------------------------\par
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.\par
\par
END OF ICU NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
====================================================================\par
ICU CODE.  The Program includes the ICU 4.2 software.\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following\par
license from ICU\par
\par
\par
ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2009 International Business Machines Corporation and others\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a\par
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the\par
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including\par
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,\par
distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons\par
to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above\par
copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of\par
the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this\par
permission notice appear in supporting documentation.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS\par
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT\par
OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR\par
HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL\par
INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING\par
FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,\par
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION\par
WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder\par
shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use\par
or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization\par
of the copyright holder.\par
\par
----------------------------\par
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.\par
\par
END OF ICU NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
====================================================================\par
JPEG CODE.  The Program includes the JPEG 6b software.\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following\par
license from JPEG\par
\par
The authors make NO WARRANTY or representation, either express or implied,\par
with respect to this software, its quality, accuracy, merchantability, or\par
fitness for a particular purpose.  This software is provided "AS IS", and you,\par
its user, assume the entire risk as to its quality and accuracy.\par
\par
This software is copyright (C) 1991-1998, Thomas G. Lane.\par
All Rights Reserved except as specified below.\par
\par
Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this\par
software (or portions thereof) for any purpose, without fee, subject to these\par
conditions:\par
(1) If any part of the source code for this software is distributed, then this\par
README file must be included, with this copyright and no-warranty notice\par
unaltered; and any additions, deletions, or changes to the original files\par
must be clearly indicated in accompanying documentation.\par
(2) If only executable code is distributed, then the accompanying\par
documentation must state that "this software is based in part on the work of\par
the Independent JPEG Group".\par
(3) Permission for use of this software is granted only if the user accepts\par
full responsibility for any undesirable consequences; the authors accept\par
NO LIABILITY for damages of any kind.\par
\par
These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the IJG code,\par
not just to the unmodified library.  If you use our work, you ought to\par
acknowledge us.\par
\par
Permission is NOT granted for the use of any IJG author's name or company name\par
in advertising or publicity relating to this software or products derived from\par
it.  This software may be referred to only as "the Independent JPEG Group's\par
software".\par
\par
We specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the basis of\par
commercial products, provided that all warranty or liability claims are\par
assumed by the product vendor.\par
\par
\par
ansi2knr.c is included in this distribution by permission of L. Peter Deutsch,\par
sole proprietor of its copyright holder, Aladdin Enterprises of Menlo Park, CA.\par
ansi2knr.c is NOT covered by the above copyright and conditions, but instead\par
by the usual distribution terms of the Free Software Foundation; principally,\par
that you must include source code if you redistribute it.  (See the file\par
ansi2knr.c for full details.)  However, since ansi2knr.c is not needed as part\par
of any program generated from the IJG code, this does not limit you more than\par
the foregoing paragraphs do.\par
\par
The Unix configuration script "configure" was produced with GNU Autoconf.\par
It is copyright by the Free Software Foundation but is freely distributable.\par
The same holds for its supporting scripts (config.guess, config.sub,\par
ltconfig, ltmain.sh).  Another support script, install-sh, is copyright\par
by M.I.T. but is also freely distributable.\par
\par
It appears that the arithmetic coding option of the JPEG spec is covered by\par
patents owned by IBM, AT&T, and Mitsubishi.  Hence arithmetic coding cannot\par
legally be used without obtaining one or more licenses.  For this reason,\par
support for arithmetic coding has been removed from the free JPEG software.\par
(Since arithmetic coding provides only a marginal gain over the unpatented\par
Huffman mode, it is unlikely that very many implementations will support it.)\par
So far as we are aware, there are no patent restrictions on the remaining\par
code.\par
\par
The IJG distribution formerly included code to read and write GIF files.\par
To avoid entanglement with the Unisys LZW patent, GIF reading support has\par
been removed altogether, and the GIF writer has been simplified to produce\par
"uncompressed GIFs".  This technique does not use the LZW algorithm; the\par
resulting GIF files are larger than usual, but are readable by all standard\par
GIF decoders.\par
\par
We are required to state that\par
    "The Graphics Interchange Format(c) is the Copyright property of\par
    CompuServe Incorporated.  GIF(sm) is a Service Mark property of\par
    CompuServe Incorporated."\par
\par
\par
END OF JPEG NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
====================================================================\par
LIBTIFF CODE.  The Program includes the libtiff 3.5.7 software.\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following\par
license from libtiff\par
\par
/*\par
 * Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler\par
 * Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.\par
 *\par
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and \par
 * its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided\par
 * that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in\par
 * all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of\par
 * Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or\par
 * publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written\par
 * permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.\par
 * \par
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, \par
 * EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY \par
 * WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  \par
 * \par
 * IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR\par
 * ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,\par
 * OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,\par
 * WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF \par
 * LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE \par
 * OF THIS SOFTWARE.\par
 */\par
\par
END OF LIBTIFF NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
====================================================================\par
LIBPNG CODE.  The Program includes the libpng 1.0.5 software.\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following\par
license from libpng\par
\par
/*\par
 * COPYRIGHT NOTICE:\par
 *\par
 * Copyright (c) 1995, 1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.\par
 * (libpng versions 0.5, May 1995, through 0.89c, May 1996)\par
 * Copyright (c) 1996, 1997 Andreas Dilger\par
 * (libpng versions 0.90, December 1996, through 0.96, May 1997)\par
 * Copyright (c) 1998, 1999 Glenn Randers-Pehrson\par
 * (libpng versions 0.97, January 1998, through 1.0.5, October 15, 1999)\par
 *\par
 * For the purposes of this copyright and license, "Contributing Authors"\par
 * is defined as the following set of individuals:\par
 *\par
 *    John Bowler\par
 *    Kevin Bracey\par
 *    Sam Bushell\par
 *    Andreas Dilger\par
 *    Magnus Holmgren\par
 *    Tom Lane\par
 *    Dave Martindale\par
 *    Glenn Randers-Pehrson\par
 *    Greg Roelofs\par
 *    Guy Eric Schalnat\par
 *    Paul Schmidt\par
 *    Tom Tanner\par
 *    Willem van Schaik\par
 *    Tim Wegner\par
 *\par
 * The PNG Reference Library is supplied "AS IS".  The Contributing Authors\par
 * and Group 42, Inc. disclaim all warranties, expressed or implied,\par
 * including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability and of\par
 * fitness for any purpose.  The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc.\par
 * assume no liability for direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary,\par
 * or consequential damages, which may result from the use of the PNG\par
 * Reference Library, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.\par
 *\par
 * Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this\par
 * source code, or portions hereof, for any purpose, without fee, subject\par
 * to the following restrictions:\par
 *\par
 * 1. The origin of this source code must not be\par
 *     misrepresented.\par
 *\par
 * 2. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such\par
 *    and must not be misrepresented as being the\par
 *    original source.\par
 *\par
 * 3. This Copyright notice may not be removed or\par
 *    altered from any source or altered source\par
 *    distribution.\par
 *\par
 * The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc. specifically permit, without\par
 * fee, and encourage the use of this source code as a component to\par
 * supporting the PNG file format in commercial products.  If you use this\par
 * source code in a product, acknowledgment is not required but would be\par
 * appreciated.\par
 */\par
\par
END OF LIBPNG NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
====================================================================\par
XFREE86 CODE. The Program includes fragments of the XFree86 4.8.0 software.\par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following\par
license from XFree86\par
\par
/***********************************************************\par
Copyright 1987, 1994, 1998  The Open Group\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its\par
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that\par
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that\par
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting\par
documentation.\par
\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included\par
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS\par
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.\par
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OPEN GROUP BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR\par
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,\par
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR\par
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of The Open Group shall\par
not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or\par
other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization\par
from The Open Group.\par
\par
\par
Copyright 1987 by Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts\par
\par
                        All Rights Reserved\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its\par
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,\par
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that\par
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in\par
supporting documentation, and that the name of Digital not be\par
used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the\par
software without specific, written prior permission.\par
\par
DIGITAL DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING\par
ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL\par
DIGITAL BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR\par
ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,\par
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION,\par
ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS\par
SOFTWARE.\par
\par
******************************************************************/\par
\par
END OF XFREE86 NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
====================================================================\par
INSTALLSHIELD SECTION.\par
  The Program uses the InstallShield 2009.\par
\par
  InstallShield 2009 includes the following software:\par
     o   RSA MD5   (April 1992 Version - original IETF RFC 1321 sample implementation)\par
     o   zlib 1.2.3\par
\par
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------\par
   RSA CODE. InstallShield 2009 includes the following RSA software:\par
\par
     o   RSA MD5\par
      (April 1992 Version - original IETF RFC 1321 sample\par
      implementation) \par
\par
   IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license\par
   from RSA Data Security:  \par
\par
   /* COPYRIGHT (C) 1991-2, RSA DATA SECURITY, INC. CREATED 1991. ALL\par
   RIGHTS RESERVED.\par
   LICENSE TO COPY AND USE THIS SOFTWARE IS GRANTED PROVIDED THAT IT\par
   IS IDENTIFIED AS THE "RSA DATA SECURITY, INC. MD5 MESSAGE-DIGEST\par
   ALGORITHM" IN ALL MATERIAL MENTIONING OR REFERENCING THIS SOFTWARE\par
   OR THIS FUNCTION.\par
   LICENSE IS ALSO GRANTED TO MAKE AND USE DERIVATIVE WORKS PROVIDED\par
   THAT SUCH WORKS ARE IDENTIFIED AS "DERIVED FROM THE RSA DATA\par
   SECURITY, INC. MD5 MESSAGE-DIGEST ALGORITHM" IN ALL MATERIAL\par
   MENTIONING OR REFERENCING THE DERIVED WORK.\par
   RSA DATA SECURITY, INC. MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS CONCERNING EITHER\par
   THE MERCHANTABILITY OF THIS SOFTWARE OR THE SUITABILITY OF THIS\par
   SOFTWARE FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IT IS PROVIDED "AS IS"\par
   WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.\par
   THESE NOTICES MUST BE RETAINED IN ANY COPIES OF ANY PART OF THIS\par
   DOCUMENTATION AND/OR SOFTWARE.\par
    */\par
\par
   END OF RSA NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------\par
   ZLIB CODE.  InstallShield 2009 includes the following zlib software:\par
\par
     o   zlib 1.2.3\par
\par
   IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license\par
   from zlib:  \par
\par
   /* zlib.h -- interface of the 'zlib' general purpose compression library\par
     version 1.2.3, July 18th, 2005\par
   \par
     Copyright (C) 1995-2005 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler\par
   \par
     This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied\par
     warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages\par
     arising from the use of this software.\par
   \par
     Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,\par
     including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it\par
     freely, subject to the following restrictions:\par
   \par
     1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not\par
        claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software\par
        in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be\par
        appreciated but is not required.\par
     2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be\par
        misrepresented as being the original software.\par
     3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.\par
   \par
     Jean-loup Gailly jloup@gzip.org\par
     Mark Adler madler@alumni.caltech.edu\par
   \par
   */\par
\par
   END OF ZLIB NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------\par
END OF INSTALLSHIELD NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==================================================================\par
END OF IBM ILOG VIEWS and IBM ILOG DB LINK NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==================================================================\par
 \par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
IBM ILOG JViews Enterprise V8.7\par
IBM ILOG JViews Charts V8.7\par
IBM ILOG JViews Diagrammer V8.7\par
IBM ILOG JViews Gantt V8.7\par
IBM ILOG JViews Maps V8.7\par
\par
The IBM license agreement and any applicable information on the web\par
download page for IBM products refers Licensee to this file for details\par
concerning notices applicable to code included in the products listed\par
above ("the Program").\par
\par
Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of any other agreement Licensee\par
may have with IBM or any of its related or affiliated entities\par
(collectively "IBM"), the third party code identified below are subject\par
to the terms and conditions of the IBM license agreement for the Program\par
and not the license terms that may be contained in the notices below.\par
The notices are provided for informational purposes.\par
\par
Please note: This Notices file may identify information that is not used\par
by, or that was not shipped with, the Program as Licensee installed it.\par
\par
IMPORTANT: IBM does not represent or warrant that the information in this\par
NOTICES file is accurate. Third party websites are independent of IBM and\par
IBM does not represent or warrant that the information on any third party\par
web site referenced in this NOTICES file is accurate. IBM disclaims any\par
and all liability for errors and omissions or for any damages accruing\par
from the use of this NOTICES file or its contents, including without\par
limitation URLs or references to any third party websites.\par
\par
========================================================\par
\par
APACHE 1.1 CODE. The Programs include all or portions of the following software \par
which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the Apache License  \par
Version 1.1:\par
\par
Batik 1.2beta2, BCEL 5.1, Apache Commons Beanutils 1.6 and Apache Commons \par
Collections 2.1.\par
\par
In addition, the Programs IBM ILOG JViews Charts V. 8.7 and IBM ILOG JViews \par
Gantt V. 8.7 include Apache FOP 0.20.5. \par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, with a copy \par
of the license notice from the Apache Software Foundation.  Refer to the copy \par
earlier in this file.\par
                   \par
\par
END OF APACHE 1.1 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
========================================================\par
\par
APACHE 2.0 CODE. The Programs includes all or portions of the following software \par
which IBM obtained under the terms and conditions of the Apache License \par
Version 2.0:\par
\par
Apache Ant v1.7.0, Batik 1.7, Apache Tomcat 6.0.14, Apache Xerces-J 2.9.1, \par
Apache Harmony, Apache Commons Digester 1.7, Apache Commons FileUpload 1.2.1, \par
Apache Commons Lang 2.1, Apache Commons Logging 1.1, Apache MyFaces Trinidad 1.2.8, Apache MyFaces 1.1 (ComponentAttributesMap), Apache Lucene 1.4.3, SNMP4J 1.8.2, and IBM Open Ajax Hub 2.0.\par
\par
In addition, the Program IBM ILOG JViews Maps V. 8.7 includes TextStroke.\par
\par
IBM is required to provide you, as the recipient of such software, with a copy \par
of the license notice from the Apache Software Foundation.  Refer to \par
the copy earlier in this file.\par
    \par
END OF APACHE 2.0 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
========================================================\par
\par
ICU4J: The Program includes the ICU4J 4.2.1 software. IBM obtained the software\par
under the terms and conditions of the following license:\par
\par
ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
Refer to the copy earlier in this file.\par
\par
END OF ICU4J 4.2.1 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
========================================================\par
\par
SVG DOM: The Program includes the SVG DOM 1.0 software. IBM obtained the \par
software under the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
The W3C Document Notice and License\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2001 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, \par
Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). \par
All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1994-2001 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of \par
Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, \par
Keio University). All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
The W3C Document Notice and License can be found at \par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-documents-19990405.\par
\par
W3C Software Copyright Notice and License\par
\par
Note: This section is a copy of the W3C Software Copyright Notice and License \par
and could be found at http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-software-19980720\par
\par
Copyright (c) 1994-2001 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of \par
Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique, \par
Keio University). All Rights Reserved.\par
\par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/\par
\par
This W3C work (including software, documents, or other related items) is being \par
provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By obtaining, \par
using and/or copying this work, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, \par
understood, and will comply with the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
Permission to use, copy, and modify this software and its documentation, with \par
or without modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby \par
granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the software \par
and documentation or portions thereof, including modifications, that you make:\par
\par
   1. The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of the \par
  redistributed or derivative work.\par
   2. Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers. If none exist, then \par
  a notice of the following form: "Copyright (c) [$date-of-software] World Wide Web \par
  Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Institut National de Recherche \par
  en Informatique et en Automatique, Keio University). All Rights Reserved. \par
  http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/\par
."\par
   3. Notice of any changes or modifications to the W3C files, including the date \par
  changes were made. (We recommend you provide URIs to the location from which \par
  the code is derived.)\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS \par
MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT \par
NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR \par
PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE \par
ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.\par
\par
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR \par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION.\par
\par
The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising \par
or publicity pertaining to the software without specific, written prior \par
permission. Title to copyright in this software and any associated \par
documentation will at all times remain with copyright holders. \par
\par
END OF SVG DOM 1.0 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
FACELETS: The Program includes the Facelets 1.1.14 software.\par
IBM obtained the software under the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
Facelets is allowed to release versions of the JavaServer Faces RI and API\par
in binary format, under the CDDL License Agreement.\par
\par
The CDDL license is available on the Web from:\par
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.php\par
\par
The source code for Facelets 1.1.14 is available on the Web from:\par
https://facelets.dev.java.net/\par
\par
END OF FACELETS 1.1.14 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
ECLIPSE MODELING FRAMEWORK: The Program includes parts of the Eclipse Modeling\par
Framework 2.4.1 which is only included in IBM ILOG JViews Charts V. 8.7 and \par
IBM ILOG JViews Gantt V. 8.7.\par
\par
IBM obtained the software under the terms and conditions of the Eclipse \par
Foundation Software User Agreement;  A copy of the EPL is available at \par
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html\par
\par
END OF ECLIPSE MODELING FRAMEWORK 2.4.1 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
ICEFACES: The Program includes the ICEfaces 1.7.2 software.\par
IBM obtained the software under the terms and conditions of the CDDL 1.O\par
license available on the Web from:\par
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.php\par
\par
The source code for ICEfaces 1.7.2 is available on the Web from:\par
http://www.icefaces.org/main/downloads/os-downloads.iface\par
\par
END OF ICEFACES 1.7.2 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
IBM DOJO TOOLKIT: The Program includes parts of the IBM Dojo Toolkit 1.4.1\par
software.\par
IBM obtained the software under the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
The "New" BSD License:\par
**********************\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2005-2009, The Dojo Foundation\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
\par
  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this\par
    list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
  * Neither the name of the Dojo Foundation nor the names of its contributors\par
    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software\par
    without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND\par
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED\par
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR\par
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER\par
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE\par
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF IBM DOJO TOOLKIT 1.4.1 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
PROJ: The Program includes code based on PROJ 4.3 software. Only included\par
in IBM ILOG JViews Maps V. 8.7.\par
IBM obtained the software at the following address:\par
\par
http://trac.osgeo.org/proj/ \par
\par
under the following terms and conditions:\par
 \par
 Copyright (c) 2000, Frank Warmerdam\par
\par
 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a\par
 copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),\par
 to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation\par
 the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,\par
 and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the\par
 Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included\par
 in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
\par
 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS\par
 OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
 FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL\par
 THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER\par
 LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING\par
 FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER\par
 DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\par
\par
END OF PROJ 4.3 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
TREE-TABLE DISPLAY CODE: The Program includes part of the Tree-Table display\par
code. Only included in IBM ILOG JViews Charts V. 8.7 and IBM ILOG JViews\par
Gantt V. 8.7.\par
IBM obtained the software at the following address:\par
\par
http://java.sun.com/products/jfc/tsc/articles/treetable2\par
\par
under the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
 * Copyright 1997, 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.\par
 * Copyright 1999 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 *   - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 *     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 *   - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
 *     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 *\par
 *   - Neither the name of Sun Microsystems nor the names of its\par
 *     contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived\par
 *     from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS\par
 * IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
 * THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
 * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR\par
 * CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,\par
 * EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
 * PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR\par
 * PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF\par
 * LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING\par
 * NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS\par
 * SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF TREE-TABLE DISPLAY CODE NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
TABLELAYOUT: The Program includes code based on TableLayout April 21, 2007\par
(https://tablelayout.dev.java.net). \par
IBM obtained the software under the following terms and conditions:\par
\par
 * The Clearthought Software License, Version 1.0\par
 *\par
 * Copyright (c) 2001 Daniel Barbalace. All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 * notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * 2. The original software may not be altered. However, the classes\par
 * provided may be subclasses as long as the subclasses are not\par
 * packaged in the info.clearthought package or any subpackage of\par
 * info.clearthought.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED\par
 * WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
 * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE\par
 * DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR, AFFILATED BUSINESSES,\par
 * OR ANYONE ELSE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
 * LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES, LOSS OF\par
 * USE, DATA, OR PROFITS, OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND\par
 * ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,\par
 * OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT\par
 * OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
 * SUCH DAMAGE.\par
       \par
END OF TABLELAYOUT NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
==========================================================\par
\par
\par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION FOR SUPPORTED STANDARDS\par
\par
===============================================================\par
\par
SVG 1.1 and CSS Level 2\par
\par
W3C(R) DOCUMENT LICENSE\par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-documents-20021231\par
Public documents on the W3C site are provided by the copyright holders under the \par
following license. By using and/or copying this document, or the W3C document from \par
which this statement is linked, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, \par
understood, and will comply with the following terms and conditions:\par
Permission to copy, and distribute the contents of this document, or the W3C \par
document from which this statement is linked, in any medium for any purpose and \par
without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following\par
on ALL copies of the document, or portions thereof, that you use:\par
1. A link or URL to the original W3C document. \par
2. The pre-existing copyright notice of the original author, or if it doesn't exist, \par
a notice (hypertext is preferred, but a textual representation is permitted) of the \par
form: "Copyright (C) [$date-of-document] \par
World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, \par
European Research Consortium for Informatics and Mathematics, Keio University). \par
All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-documents-20021231" \par
3. If it exists, the STATUS of the W3C document:\par
------------\par
(a) Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) 1.1 \par
http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/\par
Copyright (c) 2003 W3C (r) (MIT, ERCIM, Keio), All Rights Reserved. W3C\par
status: This document is the 14 January 2003 Recommendation of the SVG 1.1 specification. \par
------------\par
(b) Cascading Style Sheets Level 2\par
http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2009 W3C (r) (MIT, ERCIM, Keio), All Rights Reserved. \par
status:W3C Candidate Recommendation\par
\par
END OF SVG 1.1 and CSS Level 2 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
=======================================================\par
END OF IBM ILOG JVIEWS NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
======================================================== \par
\par
IBM Engineering and Scientific Subroutine Library for AIX, V5.1\par
*******************************************************************************\par
1.)  LAPACK 3.1.1\par
Copyright (c) 1992-2007 The University of Tennessee.  All rights reserved.\par
\par
$COPYRIGHT$\par
\par
Additional copyrights may follow\par
\par
$HEADER$\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are\par
met:\par
\par
- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
  \par
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer listed\par
  in this license in the documentation and/or other materials\par
  provided with the distribution.\par
  \par
- Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of its\par
  contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from\par
  this software without specific prior written permission.\par
  \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS\par
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT  \par
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR\par
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT \par
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT\par
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,\par
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY\par
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT  \par
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE\par
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. \par
\par
*******************************************************************************\par
2.)  FFTW V3.1.2 (header file)\par
\par
/*\par
 * Copyright (c) 2003, 2007 Matteo Frigo\par
 * Copyright (c) 2003, 2007 Massachusetts Institute of Technology\par
 *\par
 * The following statement of license applies *only* to header file fftw3.h,fftw2.h, and rfftw.h\par
 * and *not* to the other program files or any other files distributed with FFTW or derived therefrom:\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS\par
 * OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED\par
 * WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
 * ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY\par
 * DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
 * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE\par
 * GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS\par
 * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,\par
 * WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING\par
 * NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS\par
 * SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 */ \par
END OF IBM ESSL for AIX, V5.1 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
 \par
ESSL for Linux on POWER, V5.1 \par
*******************************************************************************\par
1.)  LAPACK 3.1.1\par
\par
Refer to the copy of the license which is earlier in this file.\par
************************************************************************\par
2.)  ICU 1.8.1\par
\par
ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
\par
Refer to the copy of the license which is earlier in this file.\par
\par
*******************************************************************************\par
3.)  Unicode\par
\par
UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE\par
\par
    Unicode Data Files include all data files under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/ . Unicode Software includes any source code\par
published in the Unicode Standard or under the directories\par
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and\par
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/.\par
\par
    NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY\par
DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE INC.'S DATA FILES\par
("DATA FILES"), AND/OR SOFTWARE ("SOFTWARE"), YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND\par
AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU\par
DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA FILES\par
OR SOFTWARE.\par
\par
    COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
\par
    Copyright \'c2\'a9 1991-2009 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under\par
the Terms of Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.\par
\par
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy\par
of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation (the "Data Files") or\par
Unicode software and any associated documentation (the "Software") to deal in\par
the Data Files or Software without restriction, including without limitation the\par
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of\par
the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files or\par
Software are furnished to do so, provided that (a) the above copyright notice(s)\par
and this permission notice appear with all copies of the Data Files or Software,\par
(b) both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in\par
associated documentation, and (c) there is clear notice in each modified Data\par
File or in the Software as well as in the documentation associated with the Data\par
File(s) or Software that the data or software has been modified.\par
\par
    THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY\par
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF\par
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD\par
PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS\par
NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,\par
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING\par
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR\par
SOFTWARE.\par
\par
    Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not\par
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings\par
in these Data Files or Software without prior written authorization of the\par
copyright holder.\par
\par
*******************************************************************************\par
4.)  FFTW V3.1.2 (header file)\par
\par
Refer to the copy of the license which is earlier in this file.\par
\par
END IBM ESSL FOR LINUX ON POWER, V5.1 NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
====================================================================\par
END OF IBM ILOG CPLEX OPTIMIZATION STUDIO NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
====================================================================\par
\par
 \par
}
 